README.md, before:


<!-- This README avoids relative paths since it is also used as Doxygen's mainpage -->

<!-- banner -->
[<img src="https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/blob/master/doxyconfig/banner.png?raw=true" alt="The QuEST logo" width=500>](https://quest.qtechtheory.org)


<!-- temporarily hiding Github Actions badges (pending aesthetic customisation)
    [![Ubuntu unit](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/workflows/Ubuntu%20unit/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions)
    [![macOS unit](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/workflows/macOS%20unit/badge.svg)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions)
    [![LLVM](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/workflows/LLVM%20asan/badge.svg)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions)
 -->
<!-- temporarily hiding incorrect coverage statistics 
(currently only considers serial CPU; needs also GPU and distributed test contributions)
    [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/QuEST-Kit/QuEST)
-->



<!-- action-badges has broken and is incorrectly showing build failure. 
     temporarily forcing badge to show the correct pass while replacement is sought 
     (that isn't Github's hideous default CI badge)
     [![unit tests](https://action-badges.now.sh/QuEST-Kit/QuEST)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions) 
--> 
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/QuEST-Kit/QuEST)](https://GitHub.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/releases/) 
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-Github.io-orange.svg)](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/modules.html)
[![unit tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-green.svg)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions)  <!-- forgive my sins (see above) -->
[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-lightgrey.svg)](LICENCE.txt)


The **Quantum Exact Simulation Toolkit** is a high performance simulator of quantum circuits, state-vectors and density matrices. QuEST uses **multithreading**, **GPU acceleration** and **distribution** to run lightning first on laptops, desktops and networked supercomputers. 
QuEST *just works*; it is stand-alone, requires no installation, and is trivial to compile and run. 
QuEST hybridises [OpenMP](https://www.openmp.org/) and [MPI](https://www.mpi-forum.org/) with _huge_ compiler support to run on all sorts of multicore, multi-CPU and distributed hardware, uses [HIP](https://docs.amd.com/bundle/HIP-Programming-Guide-v5.3) to run on AMD GPUs, integrates [cuQuantum](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuquantum-sdk) and [Thrust](https://developer.nvidia.com/thrust) for cutting-edge performance on modern NVIDIA GPUs, and has a custom kernel backend to run on older CUDA-compatible GPUs. 
And it hides these deployment modes behind a single, seamless interface.

[![Languages](https://img.shields.io/badge/C-99-ff69b4.svg)](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg14/www/standards.html#9899)
[![Languages](https://img.shields.io/badge/C++-11-ff69b4.svg)](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/cpp11)
![OS](https://img.shields.io/badge/os-MacOS-9cbd3c.svg)
![OS](https://img.shields.io/badge/os-Linux-9cbd3c.svg)
![OS](https://img.shields.io/badge/os-Windows-9cbd3c.svg)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/multithreaded-OpenMP-6699ff.svg)](https://www.openmp.org/)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/distributed-MPI-6699ff.svg)](https://www.mpi-forum.org/) 
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/GPU-CUDA-6699ff.svg)](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-zone)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/GPU-AMD-6699ff.svg)](https://docs.amd.com/bundle/HIP-Programming-Guide-v5.3)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/GPU-cuQuantum-6699ff.svg)](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuquantum-sdk)

QuEST is developed by the [QTechTheory](http://qtechtheory.org/) group at the University of Oxford, and [these authors](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/blob/master/AUTHORS.txt). To learn more:
- see the [tutorial](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/blob/master/examples/README.md)
- view the [documentation](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/modules.html)
- visit the [website](https://quest.qtechtheory.org/)
- see some [examples](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/blob/master/examples/)
- read the [whitepaper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-019-47174-9), which featured in Scientific Report's [Top 100 in Physics](https://www.nature.com/collections/ecehgdfcba/) :trophy:

[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.1038%2Fs41598--019--47174--9-yellow.svg)](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-47174-9)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/email-quest@materials.ox.ac.uk-red.svg)](mailto:quest@materials.ox.ac.uk)

---------------------------------


## :tada:&nbsp; Introduction

QuEST has a simple interface, which is agnostic to its runtime environment, between CPUs, GPUs and over networks.
```C
hadamard(qubits, 0);

controlledRotateX(qubits, 0, 1, angle);

double prob = calcProbOfOutcome(qubits, 0, outcome);
```
Yet, it is flexible
```C
Vector v;
v.x = 1; v.y = .5; v.z = 0;
rotateAroundAxis(qubits, 0, angle, v);

ComplexMatrix2 u = {
    .real = {{.5, .5}, { .5,.5}},
    .imag = {{.5,-.5}, {-.5,.5}}};
unitary(qubits, 0, u);

mixDepolarising(qubits, 0, prob);
```
and extremely powerful
```C
ComplexMatrixN u = createComplexMatrixN(5);
int ctrls[] = {0, 1, 2};
int targs[] = {5, 20, 15, 10, 25};
multiControlledMultiQubitUnitary(qubits, ctrls, 3, targs, 5, u);

ComplexMatrixN k1, k2, k3 = ...
mixMultiQubitKrausMap(qubits, targs, 5, {k1, k2, k3}, 3);

double val = calcExpecPauliHamil(qubits, hamiltonian, workspace);

applyTrotterCircuit(qubits, hamiltonian, time, order, repetitions);
```

---------------------------------

## :white_check_mark:&nbsp; Features 
QuEST supports:  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **density matrices** for precise simulation of noisy quantum computers  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **general unitaries** with any number of control and target qubits  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **general decoherence channels** of any dimension  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **general Hermitian operators** in the Pauli basis  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **many *many* operators**, including even [Pauli gadgets](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__unitary.html#ga34aa4865c92f9aa5d898c91286c9eca5), [analytic phase functions](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__operator.html#ga467f517abd18dbc3d6fced84c6589161) and [Trotter circuits](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__operator.html#ga35b6321c578a8c69470132b5ee95f930)  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **many tools to analyse** quantum states, such as calculations of [probability](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__calc.html#gad0cc08d52cad5062553d6f78126780cc), [fidelity](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__calc.html#gaa266ed6c8ae5d0d0f49e1ac50819cffc), and [expected value](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__calc.html#ga82f17e96a4cb7612fb9c6ef856df3810)  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **variable precision** through a `qreal` numerical type which can use single, double or quad precision  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **QASM output** to verify simulated circuits  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **direct access to amplitudes** for rapid custom modification of the quantum state 
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **native compilation** on MacOS, Linux and Windows, through Clang, GNU, Intel, and MSVC compilers

---------------------------------

## :book:&nbsp; Documentation

- The [tutorial](/examples/README.md) includes instructions for
  - [compiling](/examples/README.md#compiling) QuEST
  - [running](/examples/README.md#running) QuEST locally and on supercomputers
  - [testing](/examples/README.md#testing) QuEST using the comprehensive [unit tests](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__unittest.html)
  <br><br>
- The [documentation](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/modules.html) is divided into the following modules (collated [here](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/QuEST_8h.html))
  - [data structures](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__type.html)
  - [initialisations](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__init.html)
  - [unitaries](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__unitary.html)
  - [gates](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__normgate.html)
  - [decoherence](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__decoherence.html)
  - [operators](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__operator.html)
  - [calculations](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__calc.html)
  - [QASM](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__qasm.html)
  <br><br>
- Additional utilities for debugging and testing are documented below
  - [debugging](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__debug.html)
  - [unit tests](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__unittest.html)
  - [testing utilities](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__testutilities.html)


> **For developers**: QuEST's doc is automatically regenerated when the `master` branch is updated via [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions). To locally regenerate the doc, run `doxygen doxyconfig/config` in the root directory, which generates html documentation in `Doxygen_doc/html`.

---------------------------------

## :rocket:&nbsp; Getting started 

To rocket right in, download QuEST with [git](https://git-scm.com/) at the terminal
```bash
git clone https://github.com/quest-kit/QuEST.git
cd QuEST
```
Compile the [tutorial](/examples/README.md) example ([source](/examples/tutorial_example.c)) using [cmake](https://cmake.org/) and [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```
then run it with
```bash
./demo
```
<br>

> **Windows** users should install [Build Tools](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/#build-tools-for-visual-studio-2019) for Visual Studio, and [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/), and run the above commmands in the *Developer Command Prompt for VS*, though using build commands
> ```bash 
> cmake .. -G "NMake Makefiles"
> nmake
> ```
> If using MSVC and NMake in this way fails, users can forego GPU acceleration, download
> [MinGW-w64](https://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw-w64/), and compile via 
> ```bash 
> cmake .. -G "MinGW Makefiles"
> make
> ```




---------------------------------

## :heart:&nbsp; Acknowledgements

We sincerely thank the following external contributors to QuEST.

- [Jakub Adamski](https://github.com/jjacobx) for optimising distributed communication of max-size messages.
- [Bruno Villasenor Alvarez](https://github.com/bvillasen) of [AMD](https://www.amd.com/en.html) for porting the GPU backend to [HIP](https://github.com/ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP), for compatibility with AMD GPUs.
- [HQS Quantum simulations](https://quantumsimulations.de/) for contributing `mixDamping` on CPU.
- [Kshitij Chhabra](https://github.com/kshitijc) for patching some validation bugs.
- [Drew Silcock](https://github.com/drewsilcock) for patching the multithreaded build on MacOS.
- [Zach van Rijn](https://github.com/zv-io) for patching the multithreading code for GCC-9 OpenMP-5 compatibility.
- [SchineCompton](https://github.com/SchineCompton) for patching the GPU CMake release build.
- [Christopher J. Anders](https://github.com/chr5tphr) for patching the multithreading (when default off) and GPU builds (revising min cmake).
- [Gleb Struchalin](https://github.com/glebx-f) for patching the cmake standalone build.
- [Milos Prokop](https://github.com/Milos9304) for serial prototyping of `initDiagonalOpFromPauliHamil`.

QuEST uses the [mt19937ar](http://www.math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/~m-mat/MT/MT2002/emt19937ar.html) Mersenne Twister algorithm for random number generation, under the BSD licence. QuEST optionally (by additionally importing `QuEST_complex.h`) integrates the [language agnostic complex type](http://collaboration.cmc.ec.gc.ca/science/rpn/biblio/ddj/Website/articles/CUJ/2003/0303/cuj0303meyers/index.htm) by Randy Meyers and Dr. Thomas Plum

---------------------------------

## :newspaper:&nbsp; Related projects

- [QuESTlink](https://questlink.qtechtheory.org)   <br>
  a Mathematica package enabling symbolic circuit manipulation, analytic simulation, visualisation and high performance simulation with remote accelerated hardware.
  
- [pyQuEST](https://github.com/rrmeister/pyQuEST/tree/master)   <br>
  a python interface to QuEST, based on Cython, developed within the [QTechTheory](https://qtechtheory.org) group. Please note, pyQuEST is currently in the alpha stage.
   
- [PyQuEST-cffi](https://github.com/HQSquantumsimulations/PyQuEST-cffi)   <br>
  a python interface to QuEST based on cffi developed by HQS Quantum Simulations. Please note, PyQuEST-cffi is currently in the alpha stage and not an official QuEST project.

Commit message:

added NQCC to v3 README
This acknowledges the NQCC's financial support of QuEST v3.7, though will soon be superseded by an overhaul of the README for v4 which will additionally acknowledge the University of Edinburgh, AMD and NVIDIA.

README.md, after:


<!-- This README avoids relative paths since it is also used as Doxygen's mainpage -->

<!-- banner -->
[<img src="https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/blob/master/doxyconfig/banner.png?raw=true" alt="The QuEST logo" width=500>](https://quest.qtechtheory.org)


<!-- temporarily hiding Github Actions badges (pending aesthetic customisation)
    [![Ubuntu unit](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/workflows/Ubuntu%20unit/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions)
    [![macOS unit](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/workflows/macOS%20unit/badge.svg)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions)
    [![LLVM](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/workflows/LLVM%20asan/badge.svg)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions)
 -->
<!-- temporarily hiding incorrect coverage statistics 
(currently only considers serial CPU; needs also GPU and distributed test contributions)
    [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/QuEST-Kit/QuEST)
-->



<!-- action-badges has broken and is incorrectly showing build failure. 
     temporarily forcing badge to show the correct pass while replacement is sought 
     (that isn't Github's hideous default CI badge)
     [![unit tests](https://action-badges.now.sh/QuEST-Kit/QuEST)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions) 
--> 
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/QuEST-Kit/QuEST)](https://GitHub.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/releases/) 
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-Github.io-orange.svg)](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/modules.html)
[![unit tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-green.svg)](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/actions)  <!-- forgive my sins (see above) -->
[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-lightgrey.svg)](LICENCE.txt)


The **Quantum Exact Simulation Toolkit** is a high performance simulator of quantum circuits, state-vectors and density matrices. QuEST uses **multithreading**, **GPU acceleration** and **distribution** to run lightning first on laptops, desktops and networked supercomputers. 
QuEST *just works*; it is stand-alone, requires no installation, and is trivial to compile and run. 
QuEST hybridises [OpenMP](https://www.openmp.org/) and [MPI](https://www.mpi-forum.org/) with _huge_ compiler support to run on all sorts of multicore, multi-CPU and distributed hardware, uses [HIP](https://docs.amd.com/bundle/HIP-Programming-Guide-v5.3) to run on AMD GPUs, integrates [cuQuantum](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuquantum-sdk) and [Thrust](https://developer.nvidia.com/thrust) for cutting-edge performance on modern NVIDIA GPUs, and has a custom kernel backend to run on older CUDA-compatible GPUs. 
And it hides these deployment modes behind a single, seamless interface.

[![Languages](https://img.shields.io/badge/C-99-ff69b4.svg)](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg14/www/standards.html#9899)
[![Languages](https://img.shields.io/badge/C++-11-ff69b4.svg)](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/cpp11)
![OS](https://img.shields.io/badge/os-MacOS-9cbd3c.svg)
![OS](https://img.shields.io/badge/os-Linux-9cbd3c.svg)
![OS](https://img.shields.io/badge/os-Windows-9cbd3c.svg)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/multithreaded-OpenMP-6699ff.svg)](https://www.openmp.org/)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/distributed-MPI-6699ff.svg)](https://www.mpi-forum.org/) 
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/GPU-CUDA-6699ff.svg)](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-zone)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/GPU-AMD-6699ff.svg)](https://docs.amd.com/bundle/HIP-Programming-Guide-v5.3)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/GPU-cuQuantum-6699ff.svg)](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuquantum-sdk)

QuEST is developed by the [QTechTheory](http://qtechtheory.org/) group at the University of Oxford, with support of the UK [National Quantum Computing centre](https://www.nqcc.ac.uk/) (_NQCC200921_), and [these authors](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/blob/master/AUTHORS.txt). To learn more:
- see the [tutorial](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/blob/master/examples/README.md)
- view the [documentation](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/modules.html)
- visit the [website](https://quest.qtechtheory.org/)
- see some [examples](https://github.com/QuEST-Kit/QuEST/blob/master/examples/)
- read the [whitepaper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-019-47174-9), which featured in Scientific Report's [Top 100 in Physics](https://www.nature.com/collections/ecehgdfcba/) :trophy:

[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.1038%2Fs41598--019--47174--9-yellow.svg)](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-47174-9)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/email-quest@materials.ox.ac.uk-red.svg)](mailto:quest@materials.ox.ac.uk)

---------------------------------


## :tada:&nbsp; Introduction

QuEST has a simple interface, which is agnostic to its runtime environment, between CPUs, GPUs and over networks.
```C
hadamard(qubits, 0);

controlledRotateX(qubits, 0, 1, angle);

double prob = calcProbOfOutcome(qubits, 0, outcome);
```
Yet, it is flexible
```C
Vector v;
v.x = 1; v.y = .5; v.z = 0;
rotateAroundAxis(qubits, 0, angle, v);

ComplexMatrix2 u = {
    .real = {{.5, .5}, { .5,.5}},
    .imag = {{.5,-.5}, {-.5,.5}}};
unitary(qubits, 0, u);

mixDepolarising(qubits, 0, prob);
```
and extremely powerful
```C
ComplexMatrixN u = createComplexMatrixN(5);
int ctrls[] = {0, 1, 2};
int targs[] = {5, 20, 15, 10, 25};
multiControlledMultiQubitUnitary(qubits, ctrls, 3, targs, 5, u);

ComplexMatrixN k1, k2, k3 = ...
mixMultiQubitKrausMap(qubits, targs, 5, {k1, k2, k3}, 3);

double val = calcExpecPauliHamil(qubits, hamiltonian, workspace);

applyTrotterCircuit(qubits, hamiltonian, time, order, repetitions);
```

---------------------------------

## :white_check_mark:&nbsp; Features 
QuEST supports:  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **density matrices** for precise simulation of noisy quantum computers  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **general unitaries** with any number of control and target qubits  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **general decoherence channels** of any dimension  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **general Hermitian operators** in the Pauli basis  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **many *many* operators**, including even [Pauli gadgets](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__unitary.html#ga34aa4865c92f9aa5d898c91286c9eca5), [analytic phase functions](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__operator.html#ga467f517abd18dbc3d6fced84c6589161) and [Trotter circuits](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__operator.html#ga35b6321c578a8c69470132b5ee95f930)  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **many tools to analyse** quantum states, such as calculations of [probability](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__calc.html#gad0cc08d52cad5062553d6f78126780cc), [fidelity](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__calc.html#gaa266ed6c8ae5d0d0f49e1ac50819cffc), and [expected value](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST-develop-doc/group__calc.html#ga82f17e96a4cb7612fb9c6ef856df3810)  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **variable precision** through a `qreal` numerical type which can use single, double or quad precision  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **QASM output** to verify simulated circuits  
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **direct access to amplitudes** for rapid custom modification of the quantum state 
- :ballot_box_with_check: &nbsp; **native compilation** on MacOS, Linux and Windows, through Clang, GNU, Intel, and MSVC compilers

---------------------------------

## :book:&nbsp; Documentation

- The [tutorial](/examples/README.md) includes instructions for
  - [compiling](/examples/README.md#compiling) QuEST
  - [running](/examples/README.md#running) QuEST locally and on supercomputers
  - [testing](/examples/README.md#testing) QuEST using the comprehensive [unit tests](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__unittest.html)
  <br><br>
- The [documentation](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/modules.html) is divided into the following modules (collated [here](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/QuEST_8h.html))
  - [data structures](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__type.html)
  - [initialisations](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__init.html)
  - [unitaries](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__unitary.html)
  - [gates](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__normgate.html)
  - [decoherence](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__decoherence.html)
  - [operators](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__operator.html)
  - [calculations](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__calc.html)
  - [QASM](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__qasm.html)
  <br><br>
- Additional utilities for debugging and testing are documented below
  - [debugging](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__debug.html)
  - [unit tests](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__unittest.html)
  - [testing utilities](https://quest-kit.github.io/QuEST/group__testutilities.html)


> **For developers**: QuEST's doc is automatically regenerated when the `master` branch is updated via [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions). To locally regenerate the doc, run `doxygen doxyconfig/config` in the root directory, which generates html documentation in `Doxygen_doc/html`.

---------------------------------

## :rocket:&nbsp; Getting started 

To rocket right in, download QuEST with [git](https://git-scm.com/) at the terminal
```bash
git clone https://github.com/quest-kit/QuEST.git
cd QuEST
```
Compile the [tutorial](/examples/README.md) example ([source](/examples/tutorial_example.c)) using [cmake](https://cmake.org/) and [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```
then run it with
```bash
./demo
```
<br>

> **Windows** users should install [Build Tools](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/#build-tools-for-visual-studio-2019) for Visual Studio, and [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/), and run the above commmands in the *Developer Command Prompt for VS*, though using build commands
> ```bash 
> cmake .. -G "NMake Makefiles"
> nmake
> ```
> If using MSVC and NMake in this way fails, users can forego GPU acceleration, download
> [MinGW-w64](https://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw-w64/), and compile via 
> ```bash 
> cmake .. -G "MinGW Makefiles"
> make
> ```




---------------------------------

## :heart:&nbsp; Acknowledgements

We sincerely thank the following external contributors to QuEST.

- [Jakub Adamski](https://github.com/jjacobx) for optimising distributed communication of max-size messages.
- [Bruno Villasenor Alvarez](https://github.com/bvillasen) of [AMD](https://www.amd.com/en.html) for porting the GPU backend to [HIP](https://github.com/ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP), for compatibility with AMD GPUs.
- [HQS Quantum simulations](https://quantumsimulations.de/) for contributing `mixDamping` on CPU.
- [Kshitij Chhabra](https://github.com/kshitijc) for patching some validation bugs.
- [Drew Silcock](https://github.com/drewsilcock) for patching the multithreaded build on MacOS.
- [Zach van Rijn](https://github.com/zv-io) for patching the multithreading code for GCC-9 OpenMP-5 compatibility.
- [SchineCompton](https://github.com/SchineCompton) for patching the GPU CMake release build.
- [Christopher J. Anders](https://github.com/chr5tphr) for patching the multithreading (when default off) and GPU builds (revising min cmake).
- [Gleb Struchalin](https://github.com/glebx-f) for patching the cmake standalone build.
- [Milos Prokop](https://github.com/Milos9304) for serial prototyping of `initDiagonalOpFromPauliHamil`.

QuEST uses the [mt19937ar](http://www.math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/~m-mat/MT/MT2002/emt19937ar.html) Mersenne Twister algorithm for random number generation, under the BSD licence. QuEST optionally (by additionally importing `QuEST_complex.h`) integrates the [language agnostic complex type](http://collaboration.cmc.ec.gc.ca/science/rpn/biblio/ddj/Website/articles/CUJ/2003/0303/cuj0303meyers/index.htm) by Randy Meyers and Dr. Thomas Plum

---------------------------------

## :newspaper:&nbsp; Related projects

- [QuESTlink](https://questlink.qtechtheory.org)   <br>
  a Mathematica package enabling symbolic circuit manipulation, analytic simulation, visualisation and high performance simulation with remote accelerated hardware.
  
- [pyQuEST](https://github.com/rrmeister/pyQuEST/tree/master)   <br>
  a python interface to QuEST, based on Cython, developed within the [QTechTheory](https://qtechtheory.org) group. Please note, pyQuEST is currently in the alpha stage.
   
- [PyQuEST-cffi](https://github.com/HQSquantumsimulations/PyQuEST-cffi)   <br>
  a python interface to QuEST based on cffi developed by HQS Quantum Simulations. Please note, PyQuEST-cffi is currently in the alpha stage and not an official QuEST project.
